/* BLOCK markdown */
This is a theory I came up with a few months ago to reconcile some issues I have with the currently accepted model of the origin of the cosmos. I might expand more on it in the future. I'm mostly just putting it here as reference for myself. Taken from an email to my friend Patrick on July 13, 2016

An alternate explanation of the redshift of distance galaxies is that light decays as it moves, red shifting and losing energy because moving large distances requires effort. You asked "where does this energy go?" and I was stumped, but dark energy also poses questions about the law of conservation of energy. If light is redshifted by dark energy, where is that energy going? Does the universe just decrease in energy over time? Why did the universal expansion grind to a halt after the big band and then speed up again in recent eons? As I understand it these are the biggest gaps in the theory of dark energy.

I wonder if maybe the energy lost by the universe expanding IS the dark energy. The entire universe is filled with background radiation. Currently this is 1e67 J of energy (assuming the universe is 3.6e80 m3 big and the CMB density is uniform at 4.19e-14 J/m3). The total amount of mass energy in normal matter is (wait for it) 3e69 J (using 3e52kg * c^2) . But the CMB started out as gamma rays which are 1e6 times more energetic than microwaves. So the energy "lost" to the CMB is about 1e73 J, or ~ 1e4 times more than the amount of mass. We currently think that dark energy is 70% of the universe and normal matter is about 5%, so my calculations are < 1e3 off, but since we're dealing with numbers on the order of 1e70 I think being 1e3 off is a pretty good first estimate.

I can think of three possible tests for this. The first is to do the above math better. I don't have the chops make such estimates and judge if they are relevant. If that number narrows with better math then that's too big of a coincidence to ignore.

Secondly we should be able to create dark energy by "destroying" light. One thing that's always bugged me is that light in theory can cancel itself out (two photos, opposite phase, same frequency in the exact same space). When sound waves do this, the energy is "lost" to heat (eg, noise canceling headphones). But if light waves annihilate, where does that energy go? According to my theory it should generate space! I don't know if it's possible to perfectly line up photos and if so if there's enough space generated to be measured, but it's a fun thought experiment if nothing else.

Finally, is there a correlation between brightness of stars (light generating objects fulling tired light expansion) and the expansion of the universe? After the initial expansion there was a "dark age" as stars started burning the expansion picks up. The creation of stars could be a kick off event for dark energy ripping the universe in the second expansion. The more space you have, the more light gets redshifted, creating a runaway chain reaction. The first expansion was the universe burning through the CMB, the second is fueled by light given off by stars.


https://xkcd.com/675/
